My attempt at issue #76: client signals and API requirement (#79)
SpencerDawkins/net-collab-rqmts: draft-kwbdgrr-tsvwg-net-collab-rqmts.md

Examples: VoIP (Peer-to-Peer (P2P), group conferencing), gaming,
Remote Desktop Virtualization, eXtended Reality (XR).

## Client Negotiating Metadata Support

Currently, some flows are granted higher priority over other flows
because of a contractual agreement between the ISP and the content
provider. These contracts could be extended to also allow per-packet
prioritization within a single UDP 4-tuple, as desired by this
document.  However, extending these contracts would disadvantage
content providers and other servers that cannot obtain such a contract
or have traffic that is difficult or impossible for the ISP to
identify and provide such service.

For such applications to benefit from per-packet prioritization within
a single UDP 4-tuple, the client needs to determine which per-packet

> markings are supported by the ISP (e.g., encoded into IPv6 Flow Label,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
markings are supported by the ISP's network (e.g., encoded into IPv6 Flow Label,
```

> UDP Option, DSCP).  Then it can indicate to the ISP that a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
UDP Option, or DSCP).  Then it can indicate to the ISP's network that a
```

certain UDP 4-tuple will have those markings.

This is achieved through two requirements described below,
REQ-API-FRAMEWORK and REQ-CLIENT-DECIDES.

Signaling to the network ({{client-network}}, {{server-network}})
will need to be facilitated by Application Programming Interfaces
(APIs) for any application to use them. Signaling and retrieval of
the signals may not be performed at a single layer (although not
encouraged). Hence, a framework is required to abstract the underlying
protocol(s) and allow the application(s) to retrieve/send signals

> using a single or a set of API(s) independent of the channels that

Reviewer: ```suggestion
using a single or a set of APIs independent of the channels that
```

are used to convey the signals.  The API framework is required even

> if one single channel is used so that any application can consume

Reviewer: ```suggestion
if one single channel is used so that any application on a client can consume
```
